+++
draft = true
title = "Vacancy: Web Developer - Dogecoin Foundation"
date = "2022-05-10"
[ author ]
  name = "Timothy Stebbing"
+++


## Web Developer - Dogecoin Foundation

The [Dogecoin Foundation](https://foundation.dogecoin.com) is an open source 
not-for-profit Foundation committed to promoting the development of Dogecoin 
as a truly decentralised, global currency for everyday use.  

The Dogecoin ecosystem is made up of millions of Shibes (people) around the 
world and has a strong history of giving, fun memes and Doing Only Good Everyday.
It is backed up by a distributed group of decentralised developers from all
over the planet, collectively working toward the goal of seeing Dogecoin in 
use everywhere around the globe (and potentially galaxy).

### The Role 

The Dogecoin Foundation is looking for a skilled Web Developer to
join the team to work with a dedicated group of volunteers delivering
multiple static websites for the opensource, decentralised cryptocurrency 
Dogecoin.

This role focuses on delivering multiple static HTML/CSS/JS websites 
in a standards compliant way that are responsive, accessible, internationalised
and efficient. We utilise Hugo static site builder and deploy through 
standard Github CI to static site hosting. 

You will help to coordinate and work with an existing team of volunteers from
the community who have been working toward a multi-lingual refresh of the 
dogecoin.com website, as well as building an exciting developer portal for a 
range of community lead projects within the Dogecoin Ecosystem. 

### The ideal candidate will have:

- Excellent [English] communication skills and an ability to coordinate volunteers across 
  Discord, Github Issues and email. 

- An easy going, collaborative attitude that welcomes and encourages volunteer 
  contributions from all skill levels, you should be an encouraging mentor.

- A willingness to work in an opensource environment, through GitHub where we
  follow a simple peer review process.

- An excellent understanding of Responsive CSS, well versed in modern HTML and 
  the web ecosystem (not wedded to a big framework).

- An understanding of i18n/l10n issues, RTL layouts and accessability concerns.

- Ideally experience with the Hugo static website tool and it's templating language 
  (or the ability to come up to speed rapidly). You will be working with content 
  authors writing Markdown and an ability to create useful Hugo 'shortcodes' to make 
  their job easier would be a major benefit.
  
- A general understanding of the Dogecoin ethos (see [Dogecoin manifesto](https://foundation.dogecoin.com/manifesto/)) and a 
  desire to get involved in the mission, as well as a good sense of humour.
  
- You will need to be an able self-starter who can work independently in a remote
  environment without significant hand-holding. You should have a solid understanding
  of the F/OSS development process and be able to contribute in that manner.
  
### Extra stuff

All Dogecoin Foundation projects, volunteers and employees are expected to 
comport themselves in a manner compatible with the [Dogecoin Code of Conduct](https://github.com/dogecoinfoundation/policy/blob/main/policy_02_conduct.md). 

The Dogecoin Foundation welcomes applicants without concern for race, 
gender, religion, sexual orientation or disability.

The current team gravitates around US & Oceanic timezones. 

If this role sounds right for you, please send a resume and an intro to jobs at dogecoin dot com.
